---
title: Cancelled by association? Nigel Ng and the suppression of Youtuber
  freedom of speech
path: Cancelled-by-association
date: 2021-01-15T14:02:35.682Z
---
Today, on the 15th of January, I began the day by clicking the unsubscribed button to comedian Nigel Ng's  - better known as Uncle Roger - YouTube Channel. When I did so, I was not aware of the [\#UnsubscribeUncleRoger](https://twitter.com/hashtag/UnsubscribeUncleRoger?src=hashtag_click) movement trending online, but I am not surprised. 

Not wanting to bother you with details of what you might already know, allow me to just give a brief summary of the events that transpired. Uncle Roger made a video with fellow Youtuber Mike Chen - aka Strictly Dumpling - criticizing an Epicurious chef's dumpling making techniques. About a day later this video was removed from YouTube and Weibo (a video streaming service in China and YouTube alternative - as YouTube is banned in China).  The reasons for doing so were communicated on the Weibo platform - where Mr Ng's said that he was removing the video for the "incorrect" political views of Mike Chen towards the Chinese Government. Here is the problem with this.\
\
The YouTube video in particular contained no expression of political views, whether explicitly or implicitly, unless our 'modern sensibilities' has caused us to elevate dumpling making into a political matter!\
\
I was fortunate to be one of those who managed to watch the video in full on YouTube before it was taken down. Being an admirer (then) of Mr Ng and his work, and the Malaysian representation implicit in that work, I often watch his videos in a short period of them being released on YouTube. When that video was removed I had to convey my confusion as that was a comedy video about the correct way of making dumplings, nothing to do with any political decisions. The removal of a video for this very reason leads only to one other conclusion, the loss of freedom of speech by association.

Many of you are likely familiar that freedom of speech by association are a protected human right in some form or another in different jurisdictions. Furthermore, I think its fair to say that many see it as an intuitive right. I thus find no need to go into the details of the legal protections surrounding this human right. What I think is more fitting that I do is to explain the severe implications of such a precedent set by an influential YouTuber.

Ironically enough, Mr Ng just achieved over 3 million subscriptions just a few weeks ago, his latest video even more ironically being a video in celebration of that where he made fried rice of his own, to prove that when he criticizes chefs who make their own fried rice, he can walk the walk and not just talk the talk. Sadly, it seems that he can do neither when it comes to human rights. This latest video of his which was supposed to be a celebration of reaching 3 million subscribers is now filled with criticisms of his conduct, some from even his earlier fans who said they subscribed to him before he got famous.\
\
I want to keep my criticisms solely focus on the legal implications of this, seeing that strangely enough, there seems to be little political divide as to the wrongfulness of Chinese actions. \
\
A YouTuber choosing not to work with another over the views they share about another person's political views, taken to its logical conclusion, would mean that there could be no YouTuber collaboration at all, since everyone has a political view. This sounds like a sweeping statement on my part but just spend a few seconds to think about the large political spectrum humans stand under. Applying the same rationale as Ng and his team, a Republican YouTuber may take down his video upon finding out that his then collaborator was a Democrat! I intentionally used a broad example to show that the political *content* of the views does not matter since there is no inkling of them mentioned in the YouTube video yet it was still taken down. The precedent has potential to bar collaboration by association. 

Now as I highlight the content, you will see the situation in an even more grave light. Chen, [responding to the video take down](https://coconuts.co/kl/lifestyle/china-critic-mike-chen-tells-uncle-roger-to-educate-himself-after-deleting-video-to-appease-chinese-fans/), was vocal about *historical events* such as the Tiananmen Square massacre, Uyghur Labour camps and the imprisoning of Hong Kong pro-democracy activists. Knowing these are historical events, all humans should rightfully be able to take a lesson out of their history books - literally. It does not matter that these are ongoing historical events. If Ng were to take down a view where his collaborator expresses fake news *in the video itself* for example, that would have been valid. However, all that appeared to be expressed - and again off the video - merely appeared to be disapproval shared by those who care about the common dignity of man. \
\
While I am personally deeply disapproving of the Chinese Government's actions, such as the[ forced imprisonment, cultural genocide and political brainwashing of the Uyghur community](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-china-50511063), I reach this conclusion through the evidence unbiased to the best of my knowledge that can be. If one were to reach the opposite conclusion based on the same evidence, I would be disheartened but hold no animosity. Yet, if I were to be a victim of ostracization because of those views, not only would I be diminished to a point lower to than a human being valid of expressing ideas (and that is a less important point to me personally), it would also mean that the opportunity for gaining knowledge to make a stand is ended then and there. \
\
Thus, what Ng is effectively doing is setting a precedent that certain views of a person have a reductionist effect on a person, rendering them a member not rightfully communicating to. At this point, my conclusion may sound unduly harsh, but let me set out a few things I am NOT saying to help frame my point.\
\
Firstly, I am not chiding Ng for the protection of his subscribers or access to a new market of subscribers. Many YouTubers are not above doing the same and it is unfortunate that Ng made such a mistake in a moment of his life where the spotlight shines clearly on him. If Mike Chen made any political comments in the video, and Ng stayed true to the comedic nature of his channel, it would be entirely fitting that Ng removes the video (he would not have uploaded it in the first place). But the action of *removing* it because of Mike Chen's comments runs contrary to the goal of subscriber protection or access to a new market. The goal of his channel is to entertain, spreading knowledge about Asian food culture through comedic means, and to do so means to reach as many people as possible without shame. Ng is an embodiment of proudness of his Malaysian Chinese heritage, and to that I look up to him. Fearing a government regime, anticipating a problem before it even arises, is contrary to Uncle Roger's mission and belief.

Secondly, I am not saying that YouTube is the best source for freedom of speech either. There have been videos covering persecution of Christians by Islamic regimes which were [removed by YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vd_RBk1WG9s) as they were interpreted as hate speech, not taking a nuanced approach to what Islamic refers to, jumping to the conclusion that the video was attacking Islam per se rather than the egregious violations of human rights taking place across borders. However, it is almost unthinkable that YouTube bans comedy - even political comedy. So the character of YouTube is irrelevant here in case anyone wants to make ad hominem justifications of Ng.\
\
Thirdly, I am not invoking the spirit of the hashtag to try and bend your wills by peer pressure to unsubscribe as well. I did it out of my own conscience, and I only ask you to do the same. Promoting a freedom of speech, and hopefully a change of heart from Ng, would be a better way forward.\
\
I conclude this blog on a sombre note, afraid of how freedom of speech can so easily be impeded by a tenuous link, with the value of opinions diminished, dominated by fear. Is this the 21st century world we live in?